README.md, before:

# Useful-for-DS5110
Welcome! Found in this repository is a compilation of sources, website links, tutorials, and personal notes that I found useful for those taking *DS5110: Essentials of Data Science*--a data science course at Northeastern University. The cheat sheets, links, and tutorials are sources I found online, while any "useful notes" are self-made.

## Table of Contents
* [Useful Links](#useful-links)
* [Useful Notes](#useful-notes)
* [Cheat Sheets](#cheat-sheets)

## Useful Links
This is just a list of links that I found personally helpful when I was taking the course. Will be periodically updated. If someone has a link that they think is super great, I'd be happy to hear about it!

| Topic/Link | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Argparse Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88pl8TuuKz0&t=19s) | Argument parsing with argparse in Python. |
| [Central Limit Theorem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YAlJCEDH2uY&start=42) | Short, sweet and to the point. |
| [Git Source Control for Dummies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJ-qvsxPHpY) | I really liked the simple/effective approach the person had in this YouTube tutorial. |
| [GitHub Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Dd7KRpKeaE) | Great for people who want to use this instead of the command line. |
| [Makefile Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt-UF7fNLJE) | Makefiles in Python for professional automation. |
| [Pandas Tutorial (1.5 hrs)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2uvysYbKdjM), [Pandas Tutorial (20min)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRKeLrwfUgU) | Both of these are great overviews on using Pandas DataFrames. The longer one goes into some advanced functionalities. |
| [PDF, CDF, PPF Distribution](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VYupIsbLlY) | Really great explanation that helps one intuitively understand Normal distribution. |
| [SQL Exercises](https://sqlbolt.com) | Aside from the W3 schools tutorial, this is another great site to run practice SQL exercises. |
| tbd | tbd |

## Useful Notes
This is a list of personal notes that I either created specifically for this class, or took myself while I was taking the class. All of these can be found in the `Useful Notes` directory.

| Topic/Title | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Argparse and Make](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/argparse_makefile_notes.ipynb) | This notebook goes over the basics of of Argparse and Make used in python. |
| [Histogram Examples w/ Stats](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/histogram_examples_with_stats.ipynb) | Old class notes I took when I was taking the course. This goes over T-tests, U-tests, normality tests, histograms/boxplots, and etc. |
| [Iris dataset stats](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/iris_dataset_stats.ipynb) | This goes over using pandas/numpy/python libraries to run calculation on the Iris data set (mean, median, std. dev, etc) |
| [Matplotlib](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/matplotlib_notes.ipynb) | This notebook goes over the basics of visualization with Matplotlib and a little Seaborn. |

## Cheat Sheets
List of online cheat sheets that I found personally useful--I'm always open to extra recommendations! All of these can be found in the `Cheat Sheets` directory.

| Topic/Title | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Command Line](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/command_line_cheatsheet.pdf) | Command line cheat sheet. |
| [Conda](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/conda_cheatsheet.pdf) | From the official conda documentation. |
| [Conda 2](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/conda_cheatsheet2.pdf) | An alternative cheat sheet that I liked. |
| [Git Source Control](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/git%20cheat%20sheet.pdf) | Git command cheat sheet made by GitHub. |

Commit message:

Added sqlite3 tutorial and updated README

README.md, after:

# Useful-for-DS5110
Welcome! Found in this repository is a compilation of sources, website links, tutorials, and personal notes that I found useful for those taking *DS5110: Essentials of Data Science*--a data science course at Northeastern University. The cheat sheets, links, and tutorials are sources I found online, while any "useful notes" are self-made.

## Table of Contents
* [Useful Links](#useful-links)
* [Useful Notes](#useful-notes)
* [Cheat Sheets](#cheat-sheets)

## Useful Links
This is just a list of links that I found personally helpful when I was taking the course. Will be periodically updated. If someone has a link that they think is super great, I'd be happy to hear about it!

| Topic/Link | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Argparse Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88pl8TuuKz0&t=19s) | Argument parsing with argparse in Python. |
| [Central Limit Theorem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YAlJCEDH2uY&start=42) | Short, sweet and to the point. |
| [Git Source Control for Dummies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJ-qvsxPHpY) | I really liked the simple/effective approach the person had in this YouTube tutorial. |
| [GitHub Desktop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Dd7KRpKeaE) | Great for people who want to use this instead of the command line. |
| [Makefile Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt-UF7fNLJE) | Makefiles in Python for professional automation. |
| [Pandas Tutorial (1.5 hrs)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2uvysYbKdjM), [Pandas Tutorial (20min)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRKeLrwfUgU) | Both of these are great overviews on using Pandas DataFrames. The longer one goes into some advanced functionalities. |
| [PDF, CDF, PPF Distribution](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VYupIsbLlY) | Really great explanation that helps one intuitively understand Normal distribution. |
| [SQL Exercises](https://sqlbolt.com) | Aside from the W3 schools tutorial, this is another great site to run practice SQL exercises. |
| tbd | tbd |

## Useful Notes
This is a list of personal notes that I either created specifically for this class, or took myself while I was taking the class. All of these can be found in the `Useful Notes` directory.

| Topic/Title | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Argparse and Make](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/argparse_makefile_notes.ipynb) | This notebook goes over the basics of of Argparse and Make used in python. |
| [Histogram Examples w/ Stats](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/histogram_examples_with_stats.ipynb) | Old class notes I took when I was taking the course. This goes over T-tests, U-tests, normality tests, histograms/boxplots, and etc. |
| [Iris dataset stats](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/iris_dataset_stats.ipynb) | This goes over using pandas/numpy/python libraries to run calculation on the Iris data set (mean, median, std. dev, etc) |
| [Matplotlib](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Useful%20Notes/matplotlib_notes.ipynb) | This notebook goes over the basics of visualization with Matplotlib and a little Seaborn. |
| [Python sqlite3]() | This notebook goes over an example of creating a database using Python's sqlite3. |

## Cheat Sheets
List of online cheat sheets that I found personally useful--I'm always open to extra recommendations! All of these can be found in the `Cheat Sheets` directory.

| Topic/Title | Comments |
| ---          | ---  |
| [Command Line](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/command_line_cheatsheet.pdf) | Command line cheat sheet. |
| [Conda](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/conda_cheatsheet.pdf) | From the official conda documentation. |
| [Conda 2](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/conda_cheatsheet2.pdf) | An alternative cheat sheet that I liked. |
| [Git Source Control](https://github.com/charVANder/Useful-for-DS5110/blob/main/Cheat%20Sheets/git%20cheat%20sheet.pdf) | Git command cheat sheet made by GitHub. |
